\-\-- layout: post title: \'How to Switch Careers in the Software
Industry \' date: \'2015-04-20T14:41:00.002-04:00\' author: T.J. Maher
tags: - beginner - industry - manual to automation modified\_time:
\'2016-04-29T07:59:32.475-04:00\' blogger\_id:
tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-3868566217808655382.post-5146630919920624931
blogger\_orig\_url:
http://www.tjmaher.com/2015/04/how-to-switch-careers-in-software.html
\-\-- Trying to switch careers in the software industry, such as moving
from software testing to something more in development? In this blog
post I will be outlining how I made the transition from a position as
manual QA engineer \-- where, although I had a technical position, I was
doing next to no actual coding \-- to an automated testing position,
where I am programming in Selenium and Java daily.\
\
\
This transition didn\'t come overnight. It took years to lay the
groundwork for the career shift to take place. Because this transition
was so difficult for me, I wanted to share some pointers with anyone who
may be in a similar situation to possibly make their career shift
easier.\

### Make the commitment

\
\
[]{#more}\
\
\
The first step for me shifting from a manual testing position to one in
automated testing was deciding to fully make the commitment. I have
written in my blog about the new [Agile Software Development
Methodology](http://adventuresinautomation.blogspot.com/2015/01/agile-software-development.html),
and with it there have been [shifts in the software testing
industry](http://adventuresinautomation.blogspot.com/2015/02/shifts-in-software-testing.html).
The role of a [traditional Software Quality Assurance
Engineer](http://adventuresinautomation.blogspot.com/2015/01/the-life-of-manual-tester.html)
who emulates operating on a web or mobile app in the same way as the
end-user \-- with keyboard, mouse, or fingers on a touchscreen \-- was
disappearing. Tools like [Selenium
WebDriver](http://adventuresinautomation.blogspot.com/2015/02/a-bit-about-selenium-webdriver.html)
were forcing manual testers to learn how to code. I knew that if I were
to continue in the software testing industry I would have to learn how
to code, something that actually [scared the heck out of
me](http://adventuresinautomation.blogspot.com/2015/03/learning-java.html).
I had spent fifteen years becoming well-versed in software testing. Why
the heck would I want to be a novice again? Couldn\'t I just keep on
finding jobs that tested software in the same old way I already knew?\
\
\
The problem was that it was becoming harder and harder for me to find
positions where I was qualified. I\'d make it through a few phone
screens and a few rounds of face-to-face interviews only to be told that
although the position was originally supposed to be \"no previous
programming experience necessary\" they decided that the job
requirements had evolved with the needs of the company.\
\
\
To stay in the software testing industry, I decided that I was going to
have to really make a major time commitment to train myself in the new
tools and technology. For months, I would have to spend evenings and
weekends locked away in front of the computer doing research and
training. Instead of bouncing around Boston with my wife, or going to
whatever spur-of-the-moment fun and nerdy activity my friends were
doing, I would have to be sifting through technical manuals and
[researching on the computer about automated
testing](http://adventuresinautomation.blogspot.com/2015/02/selenium-webdriver-user-resources.html).
In order to make this transition, I had to be serious about it. It
called for serious time and effort, and I had to use my entire support
network of family and friends to help motivate me to do it.\

<div>

\

### Recognize that earning the degrees are just the first step

\
I had spent so much time and effort earning a BSCS back in 1998 and a
Masters of Software Engineering in 2008 that it was baffling to me that
the degrees I earned were not enough. What I did not understand was that
earning the degrees was only the first step in making a transition to a
career in development. Software companies were already spending a lot of
time and effort attempting to transition their own software testing
departments. Hands-on current experience mattered more than technologies
that were studied almost ten years ago. Java had jumped from version 6
to version 8. It wasn\'t just the software testing industry. Even the
programming language had changed beyond my previous classwork. I had to
do some serious catch up work.\
Practice like crazy\
\
I discovered Alan Richardson\'s online course, [Selenium 2: WebDriver
Basics with
Java](http://courses.compendiumdev.co.uk/courses/selenium-2-webdriver-with-java)
during my Christmas vacation of 2013. Although the course was \$299, I
found it was well worth the money. Alan had a knack for explaining
complex problems simply, breaking things down step-by-step. The short
lectures covered not just the basics, but also included all the
intermediate and advanced material you could ever want, walking the
student through installing Selenium WebDriver, Java, and IntelliJ, the
Integrated Development Environment (IDE) Alan prefers to use to write
Java code.\
\
\
My problem was that I wasn\'t writing any code. I found myself listening
to the lectures for weeks everywhere I went, but because I was not
typing out the exercises side-by-side with the instructor, playing with
and figuring out the code, nothing was really sticking. I became
frustrated and gave up after a few months of work. It wasn\'t until I
started re-developing good programming habits with Zed Shaw\'s [Learning
Python the Hard
Way](http://adventuresinautomation.blogspot.com/2015/02/book-review-learning-python-hard-way.html)
a year later that it became easier for me. In order to learn to code, I
had to actually code, and not simply listen to someone describe their
code. When I got stuck before with Alan\'s lessons, I would think that
if I just spent another hour listening to the lessons, I could get
myself unstuck.\
\
\
Writers don\'t learn how to write by only reading Strunk & White\'s The
Elements of Style. They learn by writing papers, essays, and articles,
and they practice writing daily with journals. Coders learn to code by
going beyond the classroom, experimenting on their own with writing
programs and apps. Automated testers do the same with random sites on
the web: How would I test this web page and what would I code to write
the tests?\
\
\
I\'ve gotten in the habit of spending at least an hour a day coding,
either in Python, Java, or Selenium with Java. The bad stuff remains
buried on my hard drive. The okay stuff, I post in my programming
portfolio on [GitHub](https://github.com/tjmaher?tab=repositories). I
haven\'t written anything fantastic yet. Right now, I am just plugging
along, but you know what? That\'s enough.\
\

### Network like crazy

\
When I first heard of [Meetup.com](http://meetup.com/), it was a way for
like-minded individuals to get together to share political views,
remnants of [Howard Dean\'s presidential
campaign](http://archive.wired.com/wired/archive/12.01/dean.html). When
I first became active in Meetup, groups such as [Nerd Fun -
Boston](http://www.meetup.com/NerdFunBoston/) brought the site back to
Meetup\'s original goal of using technology to foster a sense of
community in the real world. Nowadays, all you need to do is go to the
site and type in search keywords like \"WebDriver\", \"software\", and
\"Java\" to find lectures, training sessions, and technological
networking events in your local area. It is easy to forget if you have
been at the same job for a while that technology is always changing.
Meetups aren\'t just a good way to keep abreast with what\'s happening
with the software industry. It\'s also a good way to meet people who are
also trying to keep up with industry trends. I have been going to one or
two technology Meetups a month.\
\
\
For networking, [LinkedIn.com](http://www.linkedin.com/in/tjmaher1) has
also helped me. It\'s a good way to keep in touch with your contacts:
Alumni from your alma mater, your friends, your current and former
co-workers, and your former supervisors. It has allowed me to keep track
of friends from former workplaces, see what projects they are working on
now, and stay connected with them. It also allows me to review the
background of anyone who has granted me an interview. When I have a job
interview, even though I may not get the position, if the interviewer
and I had a great conversation they might become a potential contact.\
\

### Recognize Opportunities When You See Them

\
\
When I auditioned for my current position at Fitbit - Boston back in
January, it was pitched to me by their in-house recruiter as a manual
testing position. They needed someone to help build out their QA
department, and create policy and procedure for the department. They did
have an automated testing department, but they didn\'t have any
immediate openings at that time. My main focus would be their immediate
need of manual testing, but I could get a bit of experience in
automation from the automation lead. Would I still be interested? If so,
they would set up a phone interview.\
\
\
I had to think about it for a bit. I knew that I needed to figure out
automated testing in order to continue my career. I researched Fitbit
online and discovered that it was a great company to work for. I
mentioned to the recruiter that I was looking for exposure to automated
testing. Would it be possible to have maybe 20% of the job involve
getting exposure to automated testing? She passed the information along
to the hiring manager.\
\
\
With all the work I had done, during the job interview I was able to
speak intelligently about automation. I was able to talk about what
automation is and is not good for. And I had sample programs I could
demonstrate on my [GitHub](http://www.github.com/tjmaher) account. After
the interview process another candidate was hired for building out the
manual QA position, and I was brought on board to develop automation.\
\
\
Fitbit is a great company, and I am really lucky to be here. I am now
being trained in how Fitbit does automation, exactly what I was looking
for. But if I hadn\'t performed all of the prep-work \-- making the
commitment, going beyond what was learned in the classroom, practicing
automated testing a little each day, networking, and being open-minded
about opportunities \-- I never would have been close to being hired.\
\
\
If you are in the software testing field and are trying to make the
switch from a manual testing role to something in automation, don\'t
give up! It is going to take a lot of time and effort, but it will be
well worth it, giving you a fresh new look at the field you enjoy.

</div>

<div>

\

</div>

<div>

-T.J. Maher\
* Sr. QA Engineer, Fitbit*\
* Boston, MA*\
*\
// Automated tester for \[ 1 \] month and counting!*\
*\
Please note: \'Adventures in Automation\' is a personal blog about
automated testing. It is not an official blog of
[Fitbit.com](http://www.fitbit.com/). *

</div>
