\-\-- layout: post title: The Ministry of Testing - Boston is looking
for a permanent home! date: \'2016-12-29T16:03:00.003-05:00\' author:
T.J. Maher tags: modified\_time: \'2016-12-29T16:03:55.139-05:00\'
blogger\_id:
tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-3868566217808655382.post-4393048616994404751
blogger\_orig\_url:
http://www.tjmaher.com/2016/12/the-ministry-of-testing-boston-is.html
\-\-- I am happy to say that I have been made the co-organizer of the
newly rebranded \"Ministry of Testing - Boston\" Meetup group, formerly
the Greater Boston QA and Testing Meetup, at
<https://www.meetup.com/ministry-of-testing-boston>. We are now under
the [Ministry of Testing](http://www.ministryoftesting.com/) umbrella.\
\
My first task as co-organizer? Try to find Ministry of Testing - Boston
a home!\
\
Right now, the group is in the first year of its existence and is still
in the nomadic stage. We always need to find a new location from month
to month. In spite of this constant switching of locations, we do seem
to get a high attendance rate of around 30 - 40 people per Meetup, with
over 350 members.  \
\
A friend of mine is checking to see if there is room at Google\'s
Cambridge, MA office for our organization to meet once a month. If there
isn\'t room, I need to find a back-up location!\
\
Leave me a message below, or say hello to me at Twitter at \@tjmaher1.\
\
Happy Testing!\
\
-T.J. Maher\
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/tjmaher1) \| [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/tjmaher1) \| [GitHub](https://github.com/tjmaher)\
\
*// Sr. QA Engineer, Software Engineer in Test, Software Tester since
1996.\
// Contributing Writer
for [TechBeacon.](http://techbeacon.com/contributors/thomas-maher)\
// \"Looking to move away from manual QA? Follow [Adventures in
Automation](http://www.tjmaher.com/) on
[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/AdventuresInAutomation/)!\"*
