\-\-- layout: post title: \'New Ministry of Testing - Boston Event:
3/13/2017: Automated UI Testing using Apple's XCTest/Swift @ Slalom
Consulting\' date: \'2017-02-25T21:20:00.002-05:00\' author: T.J. Maher
tags: - MoTB modified\_time: \'2017-03-01T07:23:11.829-05:00\'
blogger\_id:
tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-3868566217808655382.post-5482723922584195677
blogger\_orig\_url:
http://www.tjmaher.com/2017/02/new-ministry-of-testing-boston-event.html
\-\--

<div>

**From the Ministry of Testing - Boston website:**

</div>

<div>

<https://www.meetup.com/ministry-of-testing-boston/events/237975761/>

</div>

<div>

\

</div>

\"Description: With the increasing popularity of both mobile
applications and Apple hardware, Quality Assurance (QA) professionals
are being asked more and more to test native iOS applications. Automated
User Interface (UI) testing continues to grow in popularity and can help
save time, money, and eliminate human error in the testing process.\

<div>

\

</div>

<div>

\"Apple's XCTest provides a robust UI testing framework that allows a QA
professional to automate most actions a user would perform on a mobile
device. With convenient features such as UI recording and the option to
write tests in the feature-rich Swift programming language, this
framework is a popular and solid choice. Using the case example of an
ongoing iPad app build, we will explore how QA professionals can use
this framework to build a comprehensive testing suite and touch upon
some of the plumbing/DevOps associated with getting up and running and
automating aspects of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)\".\
\
Sign up
[here](https://www.meetup.com/ministry-of-testing-boston/events/237975761/)!\
\
\
Happy Testing!\
\
-T.J. Maher\
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/tjmaher1) \| [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/tjmaher1) \| [GitHub](https://github.com/tjmaher)\
\
*// Sr. QA Engineer, Software Engineer in Test, Software Tester since
1996.\
// Contributing Writer
for [TechBeacon.](http://techbeacon.com/contributors/thomas-maher)\
// \"Looking to move away from manual QA? Follow [Adventures in
Automation](http://www.tjmaher.com/) on
[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/AdventuresInAutomation/)!\"*

</div>
